## PROBLEM STATEMENT

The educational institution Colegio Ramon B. Jimeno E.A.A.B, is a special
District institution located in the city of Bogotá D.C. in the department of
Cundinamarca, The Board of Directors of the E.A.A.B Company through Resolution
No. 0031 of December 16, 1971 created the Association and established the
statutes of its order. It was assigned the name of the first promoter of a water
company in the city of Bogotá: Ramón B. Jimeno. It was established as a mixed
secondary school for the children of the employees and pensioners of the public
company, whose management and operation was left under the responsibility of the
Bogota Water and Sewerage Company, The Ramon B Jimeno educational institution
has a platform which allows them to manage the information of their students,
the system includes several functionalities, among which are; management of the
grades of each student and her average in each subject and general average of
her academic data, it also has an alert system to absences and a portal for
scheduling nursing appointments. The current system is efficient but as we can
see its functionalities are simple in the sense that it only manages basic
student information, appointment scheduling, and their score in each subject.

Therefore, the institution requires a technological improvement that allows the
automation and centralization of academic management, in order to improve
efficiency and effectiveness. in academic information management. It is
necessary to have academic management software that allows the integration of
different existing systems and applications provided by the Ministry of
Education and the automation of the processes of the institution that has user
management and permits, the creation of reports, the visualization of
statistics, among other relevant features.

The improvement, design and implementation of this academic management software
(access modules, student attendance control) specifically; involves a planning
process and proper project management, involving all stakeholders in the
educational community, and a process for monitoring and evaluating the
modification to the software implemented to ensure its long-term sustainability.

Of all the improvements to the software of the educational institution, we will
focus on keeping a record of the students enrolled in the institution, including
information such as their personal data and assistance; also the live report of
absence to parents.

## JUSTIFICATION

- Register student absenteeism, to later analyze and group the results in a
  dashboard that can be consulted daily by teachers, administrators and
  guardians.
- Reduce the attendance registration time of students at the entrance of the
  institution and each of the classes through the use of QR code and
  smartphones, sending alerts to software administrators.

## SCOPE

Teachers, students and staff of the Ramon B. Jimeno E.A.A.B School, includes the
attendance record module.

## GOALS

### GENERAL OBJECTIVE

Create software to record the attendance control of students at the Ramon B.
Jimeno E.A.A.B School that presents the information in a configurable dashboard
and with reading and modification permissions depending on the roles of the
people in the educational institution.

### SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

- Facilitate access to academic information for guardians and guardians.
- Reduce the risk of errors and omissions in academic management.
- Ensure that confidential information of students and teachers is adequately
  protected and that data is accessible only to authorized persons depending on
  the ROLE.
- Activate or deactivate specific students and roles.
- Manage attendance: teachers will be able to record student attendance in
  class.
- Collect data: the software will record the time, the student's code and the
  code of the person who made the record; Through a dashboard, the information
  can be analyzed or the API can be connected with Microsoft Power BI or
  Tableau.
- Offer real-time information: The software will provide real-time information
  about the attendance record and grades.

## RISKS

## LIMITATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS

The limitations and restrictions of the project are:

- Limited budget: The project must be implemented with a limited budget and with
  technological and human resources available from the G3 study group of file
  2675809 of the SENA virtual training process – Software Analysis and
  Development.
- Limited technological and human resources: Technological tools and free
  software development methodologies must be used to avoid licensing costs.
